@dir

# Fermion instantiations

The subdirectories in this directory
are procedurally generated by `generate_instantiations.sh`.

This script is **never run by the build system**;
if you need to add new instantiations
(or remove them),
you need to run it by hand.
The results of running this script should be committed to the repository;
the subdirectories in this directory are the results of a previousrun.

## Making changes

If the set of instantiations to build is expanded,
this script must be edited,
and then run manually from this directory as

```
./generate_instantiations.sh
```

If instantiations are removed from the list,
then all subdirectories should be removed
before running the script:

```
rm -r */  # Note the trailing /; we only want to remove subdirectories
./generate_instantiations.sh
```

If you require a type of fermion in your code that is not in the set instantiate here,
you have two options:

1. Follow the instructions above to expand the set,
   then rebuild Grid.
2. Explicitly instantiate the requisite fermion in your own code,
   using the same structure used here.

Note that not all instantiations here are always built by Grid.
See the `--enable-fermion-reps` and `--enable-fermion-instantiations`
options to `configure`.

## What this does

A directory is created for each implementation
(e.g. Wilson or Staggered,
\f$SU(N)\f$ or \f$Sp(2n)\f$,
fundamental or higher representation).
Inside this,
a symbolic link is created for each target kernel
(e.g. Wilson, Wilson clover, Mobius EOFA, etc. for Wilson implementations;
naïve and improved for staggered fermions)
to a common file.

For example,
`WilsonImplF/WilsonFermionInstantiationWilsonImplF.cc`
links to `WilsonFermionInstantiation.cc.master` in this directory.

Additionally,
a file `impl.h` is created
defining the attributes of the implementation
that differ from one subdirectory to another.
This is `#include`d from the symlinked `.cc` files.

The ultimate effect of all this is to create a line like:

```
template class WilsonFermion<WilsonImplF>;
```

Using this setup of symbolic links and separate files
allows each instantiation to be compiled separately,
in parallel using `make -j`,
rather than using macros or other setups to put them all in one file.
Since the instantiations are by far the most expensive part of Grid to compile,
this gives significant time savings.
